---
layout: post
title: Being-Imperceptible?
---

I feel out of place wherever I walk.

Sometimes I stop briefly on a walk, but will begin moving again just in case there is someone ahead of me or behind me. I used to look behind me intently, but now I am more afraid of who is ahead, as my pace is always unfit, and I don't want to make others aware of me. The truest thing about that terrible image of the incel is the bit about the walk: the slightly-too-fast, limby lumbering. 

I don't have any contact with the world. I cannot understand most people, and they cannot understand me.
The people and places most suited to me, which I understand perfectly, I want nothing to do with. Perhaps I hate myself, or the way I appear to others just as they appear to me.
I used not to wear headphones but now I do occasionally, which I recognise shows weakness, but actually is far more useful in escaping oneself than interiorising.

This relation between the inside and outside is the problem I've always had with drivists. My dad used to refer to certain drivers as being in their own little world, which I imagine is quite true, though I couldn't be certain, as I've never driven. One notices that the windshield protects them from self-awareness of their own part in 'traffic', as they have no experience of the smells they produce, the noise they make, the grit under them. We should criminalise windshields. Drivists feel too comfortable, too separate from the world, and it makes them inhuman, unengaged, inconsiderate. The dough-eyed bus passenger, perhaps a child, staring out at you, is in fact so much more engaged, as they see the ground beside them and live with people - they have the capacity to be anti-social, which the drivist cannot recognise as relevant to themselves.

Urbanism as the technology of separation; perhaps The Radical gets this right, even as he is vulgar, and all the 'psychogeography' subsequent silly. He speaks about commodified, pseudo-cyclical time, and this reminds me of that awkward concept of the 'commute'. Perhaps there is some solidarity among commuters, those who will not look up or down to a beggar, but even if there is a distant bourgeois sociability, they all think of this time as a nothing. They are waiting to get to the place they want to be, and thus the experiences inbetween can be reduced to numbers and a vague feeling of annoyance. The train is 'delayed'. Drivists abhor 'traffic'.

This smacks of an inauthentic engagement with the world. It suggests a lack of aesthetic appreciation of experience itself, or taking seriously that one completely is oneself. These are jumbled complaints, but I think the main thrust of my problem is a lack of 'purposiveness without purpose', which accompanies the finest moments of my pedestrian experience, or time on a bike. Riding a bicycle involves a complete engagement with the wind and rain and ground beneath you, and the people around you. This constant experience of being in the world does not makes me want to shrink into a nothing, not out of the desire to become imperceptible for lack of belonging, but precisely because I belong in this world. I have no desires; I desire this.

Cycling in groups is a dream, and perfectly exemplifies the model of sociability without socialising. You must orient your extended body to account for those around you, your pace is perfectly moderated by them, you protect one another from the hostile environment created by cars and their drivers. This is another kind of exteriorising of yourself, you feel the comfort of a group in common practice and thus become a nothing. You are not looked upon, but you look at the world.

Perhaps then, the real living in this world is the orgy, the moment of undivision, the flow of bodies and fluids. I don't know - I've never done an orgy - but one imagines a primitive Ur-Orgy which has only turned into the tired, slow thing one can now imagine. Perhaps this is the spectacular pornograph, which really makes me a pervert. For Bataille too to really be a pervert, he had better not have done anything like what he writes about. De Sade is also much more impressive if you imagine him to be made up by someone, perhaps in the spirit of Borges, as a character, a lie. We have not taken pornography far enough (as always) and have been waiting for it to take up our lives totally.

I have always had a fantasy of being noticed by someone. To be perfectly still in some common space, and then by some mystery have someone land on me, and to make a friend. Of course, people do not land on each other, and even if they do, it simply annoys everyone. Then, the fantasy must be for something discreet and transactional, not put in ugly words, a perfect moment, well timed, with no waiting or confusion but simply an instant of truest human engagement, of love. Love is meant to be indescribable, and this makes it clear that it is cognitively meaningless in that it cannot be in principle verified empirically or analytically. I wonder what Hempel had to say about love.

Nonetheless, the fantasy involves peace with oneself through another. To be recognised and seen, not to become nothing but to be an object of another's desire. It's quite common as a fantasy I imagine, and reflects reactionary inauthenticity. I cannot properly analyse it, but I feel the need to rid myself of it.
